
# Use Excel 2013 to create a new Project Server report

 * [Project help](afac1e38-1219-4a88-bd22-81534778d528.md)* 
  
    
    

You can use Microsoft Excel 2013 to connect to your Project Server 2013 data and create reports.
This article walks you through creating a data connection between Excel 2013 and your Project Server 2013 data, to show a list of your projects using a PivotTable report. You can do much more than this with Excel 2013 and an OData connection to your Project Server data, but since you're just getting started, we've kept this example simple and straightforward.
  
    
    


## Step 1: Create a connection to your Project Server data in Excel 2013
<a name="__top"> </a>

The first step is to create a connection in Excel 2013 that points to your Project Server data.
  
    
    
To create a connection to your Project Server data in Excel 2013:
  
    
    

1. Open a new, blank workbook in Excel 2013.
    
  
2. On the **Data** tab, in the **Get External Data** group, click **From Other Sources** > **From OData Data Feed**.
    
  
3. Under **1. Location of the data feed**, in the **Link or File** box, type the URL for your Project Web App instance, followed by: **/_api/ProjectData/**
    
    For example, if you access Project Web App at **https://contoso.com/sites/pwa**, then you should enter **https://contoso.com/sites/pwa/_api/ProjectData/** in the **Link or File** box.
    
  
4. On the **Data Connection Wizard** dialog box, select the check box next to **Projects**, and then click **Next**.
    
  
5. On the **Save Data Connection File and Finish** step, click **Finish**.
    
  
6. On the **Import Data** dialog box, select **PivotTable Report**, and then click **OK**.
    
  
That's it! Now you are connected to the data that is stored under **Projects** in your Project Server database.
  
    
    

## Step 2: Choose data to include in your report
<a name="__top"> </a>

Next, you need to choose which portions of the **Projects** data you want to include in the report, and then design the report itself. In this very simple example, you will choose two data points: project names, and the names of the project owners.
  
    
    
To build a simple PivotTable report:
  
    
    

1. On the **PivotTable Fields** pane on the right side of the Excel 2013 window, select the check boxes next to **ProjectName** and **ProjectOwnerName**.
    
  
2. Use the options on the **Analyze** and **Design** tabs, under **PivotTable Tools** on the ribbon, to customize your PivotTable report.
    
  

## Step 3: Save your report to Project Server
<a name="__top"> </a>

Once your report is built, the last step is to save it to Project Server, so that you can easily bring it up later usingExcel Online.
  
    
    
To save a PivotTable report to Project Server:
  
    
    

1. In Excel 2013, click **File**.
    
  
2. Click **Save**, then click **Microsoft**, and then click **Browse**.
    
  
3. In the bar at the top, where your current location is listed, right-click the URL, and then click **Edit address**.
    
  
4. Type the URL for your Project Web App site in the location box, and then press **Enter**.
    
    For example, type **https://contoso.com/sites/pwa**, and then press **Enter**.
    
  
5. Scroll down in the list and double-click **Business Intelligence Center**, under **Sites and Workspaces**.
    
  
6. Double-click the **Sample Reports** library.
    
  
7. Double-click the **English (United States)** folder.
    
  
8. Type a name for your new report in the **File name** box, and then click **Save**.
    
  
After saving the report to your Project Server Business Intelligence Center, close the report in Excel 2013. Now you can navigate to it in your browser and open it using Project Web App.
  
    
    

> [!IMPORTANT]
>  Excel Online will show project data from the last time the report was refreshed in Excel 2013. To see the most recent project data in Excel Online, open the report in Excel 2013 first, refresh the data, and then save the report back to Project Server.
  
    
    


## Step 4: Open your report in Project Server
<a name="__top"> </a>

Once your report is saved to Project Server, you can navigate to the Business Intelligence Center and then open your report using Excel Online. This enables you to view your report from anywhere with access to Project Web App.
  
    
    

> [!IMPORTANT]
>  Excel Online will show project data from the last time the report was refreshed in Excel 2013. To see the most recent project data in Excel Online, open the report in Excel 2013 first, refresh the data, and then save the report back to Project Server.
  
    
    

To open your report in Excel Online:
  
    
    

1. In Project Web App, click **Reports** on the Quick Launch.
    
  
2. In the Business Intelligence Center, click **Site Contents** on the Quick Launch.
    
  
3. Under **Lists, Libraries, and other Apps**, click **Sample Reports**.
    
  
4. Click **English (United States)**.
    
  
5. Click the name of your report to open it in Excel Online.
    
  
