
# Import SharePoint tasks to the Project Web App database without a Project Web App site

 * [Project help](afac1e38-1219-4a88-bd22-81534778d528.md)* 
  
    
    

You can include the tasks that you've captured in a SharePoint task list in the Project Web App database for reporting or other data purposes. If you have already created a Project Web App site in the same site collection, you can  [Add an existing SharePoint task list to Project Web App](6f7b8294-2284-43ed-be4b-a8480f472674.md).
If you have not yet created a Project Web App site, or if you choose not to create one in the site collection that contains your task list, you can still import the task data into the Project Web App database.
  
    
    

This process involves the following three steps:
-  [Step 1: Enable the Project Web App site collection features](223f2499-86ba-47ac-8499-b2673faf5c2e.md#BKMK_Step1).
    
  
-  [Step 2: Add the Project Center web part to a page](223f2499-86ba-47ac-8499-b2673faf5c2e.md#BKMK_Step2)in the site that contains your task list.
    
  
-  [Step 3: Import your task list](223f2499-86ba-47ac-8499-b2673faf5c2e.md#BKMK_Step3) to the Project Web App database.
    
  

## Step 1: Enable the Project Web App site collection features
<a name="BKMK_Step1"> </a>

When a Project Web App site is created in a SharePoint site collection, several web parts are enabled throughout the site collection. If you are opting not to create a Project Web App site, but you still want to be able to import task list data into the Project Web App database, you must enable those site collection features in a different way.
  
    
    
Have your administrator follow the steps in  [Enable the Project Web App site collection features](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/b9c4dff2-4812-4131-8b20-4b7766d93233%28office.15%29.aspx). This enables the web parts in your site collection without creating a Project Web App site.
  
    
    

## Step 2: Add the Project Center web part to a page
<a name="BKMK_Step2"> </a>

Once you've enabled the Project Web App web parts, you can add the Project Center web part to a site in your site collection. Add the web part to a page where you want to be able to click a button and import your task list(s).
  
    
    
To add the Project Center web part to a site:
  
    
    

1. On the page where you want to add a button to import a task list, click **Page**, and then click **Edit**.
    
  
2. On the **Insert** tab, in the **Parts** group, click **Web Part**.
    
  
3. In the **Categories** section, click **Project Web App**.
    
  
4. In the **Parts** section, click **Project Center**, and then click **Add**.
    
  
5. Click once in the **Project Center** web part, and then, on the **Web Part** tab, click **Web Part Properties**.
    
  
6. In the **Project Center** pane that appears, click **Project Web App** to expand it.
    
  
7. In the **Project Web App URL** box, type the top-level URL for the site collection that contains your task list, and then click **OK**.
    
  
8. On the **Page** tab, in the **Edit** group, click **Save**.
    
  

## Step 3: Import your task list
<a name="BKMK_Step3"> </a>

After the Project Center web part is added, you can use it to import your task list to the Project Web App database.
  
    
    
To import a task list to the Project Web App database:
  
    
    

1. Click once in the **Project Center** web part, and then click the **Projects** tab.
    
  
2. In the **Project** group, click **Add SharePoint Sites**.
    
  
3. On the **Add SharePoint Sites to Project Web App** dialog box, select the check box next to the current SharePoint site, where you added the Project Center web part.
    
  
4. In the **Project Name** column for the selected row, type the project name that you want to use in the Project Web App database for this SharePoint task list.
    
  
5. In the **Tasks List** column for the selected row, choose the task list from the SharePoint site that you want to include in the Project Web App database.
    
    > [!TIP]
      >  If you want to import multiple task lists from this SharePoint site, complete this procedure and then repeat the procedure using the same site, being sure to give the added task list a different project name.
6. Click **Add** to add the task list to the Project Web App database using the project name you specified.
    
  
