
# Work with a SharePoint task list in Project Web App

After you have connected a SharePoint task list to Project Web App, there are a few different ways you can work with that list. This article describes how to use task lists with resource data, report on task lists, and create custom fields for task lists. 
  
    
    


## In this article
<a name="__top"> </a>



  
    
    
>  [Use a task list with resource data ](2d739ca8-94f7-4c84-a361-5031f1ac4a14.md#__toc329770280)
    
  

  
    
    
>  [Report on a task list](2d739ca8-94f7-4c84-a361-5031f1ac4a14.md#__toc329770281)
    
  

  
    
    
>  [Create a project custom field for a task list](2d739ca8-94f7-4c84-a361-5031f1ac4a14.md#__toc329770282)
    
  

### Use a task list with resource data
<a name="__toc329770280"> </a>

If you have assigned people to do work on tasks in your task list, when you add that task list to Project Web App, those people are listed as resources. To see this, on the Quick Launch in Project Web App, click **Resources**. Here, you see the people you've assigned to tasks listed as Work resources in the Project Web App resource pool.
  
    
    
With your task list resources visible in Project Web App, you can view all of their assignments, across all projects.
  
    
    
To view resource assignments:
  
    
    

1. In Project Web App, on the Quick Launch, click **Resources**.
    
  
2. Click once on a person's name to select that person.
    
  
3. On the **Resources** tab, in the **Navigate** group, click **Resource Assignments** to see which tasks the person is assigned to in your task list and in projects in Project Web App.
    
  
If you'd like to view accurate resource availability, you'll need to  [Change a SharePoint task list into an enterprise project](d1387254-9478-4d9d-90d7-a4aee16b1f3c.md) that you manage in Project Web App.
  
    
    

### Report on a task list
<a name="__toc329770281"> </a>

When you are building reports in Project Web App, there may be times when you want a report to show only those SharePoint task lists that you have connected to Project Web App, or other times when you want to show only enterprise projects, without including connected SharePoint task lists.
  
    
    
 Project Web App includes a flag field that is selected for each project that is a connected SharePoint task list. This field is called **ProjectVisibilityMode**, and you can include it when you build a report to filter on whether a project is a connected SharePoint task list.
  
    
    

### Create a project custom field for a task list
<a name="__toc329770282"> </a>

Although your options are somewhat limited, you can create project custom fields in Project Web App that can be edited for tasks in a connected SharePoint task list. For example, you might want to create a flag field that helps you identify whether a particular project is associated with a certain initiative in your organization.
  
    
    
To use a custom field with your connected SharePoint task list, first the Project Server administrator needs to create the custom field.
  
    
    
To create a custom field for use with a SharePoint task list:
  
    
    

1. In Project Web App, click **Settings**, and then click **Project Web App Settings**.
    
  
2. On the **Server Settings** page, in the **Enterprise Data** section, click **Enterprise Custom Fields and Lookup Tables**.
    
  
3. On the **Enterprise Custom Fields and Lookup Tables** page, in the **Enterprise Custom Fields** table, click **New Field**.
    
  
4. On the **New Custom Field** page, provide a name for the new field, and complete all required fields.
    
  
5. In the **Behavior** section, select **Allow editing on Project Details pages for SharePoint Tasks List Projects**.
    
  
6. Click **Save** to create the custom field.
    
  
Once the field is created, the next step is to add it to the **Project Center Summary** view.
  
    
    
To add a custom field to the **Project Center Summary** view:
  
    
    

1. In Project Web App, click the gear icon in the top right corner of the window, and then click **Project Web App Settings**.
    
  
2. On the **Server Settings** page, in the **Look and Feel** section, click **Manage Views**.
    
  
3. On the **Manage Views** page, scroll down and click **Summary** under **Project Center**.
    
  
4. On the **Edit View: Summary** page, select your custom field in the **Available fields** box, in the **Table and Fields** section, and then click **Add** to move it to the **Displayed fields** box. Click **Up** or **Down** to move the location of the custom field within the **Displayed fields** box.
    
  
5. Click **Save**.
    
  
Now the custom field is added to the **Summary** view in the Project Center. When you open the connected SharePoint task list for viewing in Project Web App, you can make changes to that custom field.
  
    
    
