
# Delete OLAP cubes in Project Server 2016
 **We are in the process of combining the Project Server 2013 and Project Server 2016 content into a single content set. We appreciate your patience while we reorganize things. See the Applies To tag at the top of each article to find out which version of Project Server an article applies to.** **Summary:** Delete an OLAP cube by using the OLAP Database Management page in Central Administration.
To delete an OLAP cube, you must be a Project Server service application administrator. Perform the following procedure to delete an OLAP Cube.
  
    
    


### To delete an OLAP cube by using Project Web App


1. In Central Administration, in the **Application Management** section, click **Manage service applications**.
    
  
2. Click the Project Server service application.
    
  
3. Point to the Project Web App instance where you want to build the cube, click the arrow that appears, and then click **Manage**.
    
  
4. On the Server Settings page, in the **Database Administration** section, click **OLAP Database Management**.
    
  
5. On the OLAP Database Management page, select the cube that you want to delete, and then click **Delete**.
    
    > [!NOTE]
      > This procedure deletes the cube and its associated configuration from Project Web App. The actual OLAP database is not deleted from SQL Server Analysis Services (SSAS). For information about deleting the OLAP database from Analysis Services, see  [How to: Delete an Analysis Services Database or Cube](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=212797). 

## See also


#### 


  
    
    
 [Create OLAP cubes in Project Server 2016](69efbd37-9b58-43f5-9e6b-93bc2cfbdbc6.md)
  
    
    
 [Configure an OLAP cube in Project Server 2016](6e92d2c8-ea5c-4534-9bad-9e99eb5235c8.md)
  
    
    
 [Build OLAP cubes in Project Server 2016](e1921dff-6086-451c-970e-12a8c4f5fce3.md)