
# Project Online: software boundaries and limits

 * [Project help](afac1e38-1219-4a88-bd22-81534778d528.md)* 
  
    
    

There are some important limitations that you should know if you are using Project Online. These limitations apply regardless of whether you are using Project Online by itself, or with other Office 365 plans.
> [!TIP]
> **Want more info about Project Online and Office 365 plans?** Take a look at the service descriptions for [Project Online](http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/project-online-service-description.aspx) and [Office 365](http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/office-365-platform-service-description.aspx). 
  
    
    


## Limits in Project Online
<a name="__top"> </a>

To keep Project Online performing at its best, there are some limits to how much data you can realistically store:
  
    
    

  
    
    

- 30,000 projects per Project Web App site.
    
  
- ﻿Initial quota of 25GB per Project Web App site. Please see  [Tune Project Online performance](12ba0ebd-c616-42e5-b9b6-cad570e8409c.md) for more information.
    
    > [!NOTE]
      > The 25GB limit for each Project Online database is separate from the  [SharePoint Online software boundaries and limits](http://technet.microsoft.com/library/8f34ff47-b749-408b-abc0-b605e1f6d498%28Office.14%29.aspx) where Project Web App is enabled.
For reporting, there are also limits to how many single-value custom fields, of each type, get stored in the reporting schema.
  
    
    


|**Project custom fields**|**Timesheet custom fields**|**Task and Resource custom fields, combined**|
|:-----|:-----|:-----|
|450 text fields  <br/> |450 text fields  <br/> |450 text fields  <br/> |
|450 lookup tables  <br/> |450 lookup tables  <br/> |450 lookup tables  <br/> |
|450 of all other custom field types (cost, date, duration, number, flag)  <br/> |450 of all other custom field types (cost, date, duration, number, flag)  <br/> |450 of all other custom field types (cost, date, duration, number, flag)  <br/> |
   

> [!NOTE]
> While you can create more custom fields than these limits, only this many custom fields will be included in the OData feed. You are not able to choose which of the fields are included. 
  
    
    

Also for reporting, if an individual report's source Excel file is larger than 10MB, it cannot be refreshed in Excel Online. Instead, you can:
  
    
    

- Refresh the report using Excel 2013.
    
  
- Purchase  [Power BI for Office 365](http://www.microsoft.com/powerbi/default.aspx) to extend that 10MB limit and refresh the report in Excel Online.
    
  
 [File size limits for workbooks in SharePoint Online](http://technet.microsoft.com/library/9e5bc6f8-018f-415a-b890-5452687b325e%28Office.14%29.aspx).
  
    
    

## Other considerations
<a name="__top"> </a>

Beyond the data and custom field limits, there are a couple of other variables to consider.
  
    
    

### Changing domains is not supported

If you want to use your own domain, like contoso.com, instead of the default domain, like contoso.onmicrosoft.com, you need to  [Using and managing domains in Office 365 Enterprise and Office 365 Midsize Business](http://technet.microsoft.com/library/d6eed598-2060-4fbe-ad5c-d8263b69722f%28Office.14%29.aspx) * before*  adding users to Project Online. **Changing domains after you've added users is not supported.**
  
    
    

### It takes more time to load more projects

Because it takes more time to load more projects, someone who has access to a lot of projects may find it takes longer to do some things, like opening the Project Center or changing views in the Resource Center. Consider setting up filters to cut down on the load time for those users who have access to a large amount of information.
  
    
    

### It takes more time to calculate multiple calendars

When a project, task, or resource has its own custom calendar, Project Online takes a little longer to calculate the dates for the work going on in your organization. Consider whether it makes sense to make some of the calendar changes on a broader scale, across your entire organization.
  
    
    

### Your connection speed matters

If your connection to Project Online is running slowly, it can take a little longer to do things like load reports with a lot of data, or open, save, and publish a project through the Project Online Desktop Client.
  
    
    

## Related Topics
<a name="__top"> </a>

 [Tune Project Online performance](12ba0ebd-c616-42e5-b9b6-cad570e8409c.md)
  
    
    
