
# Project Server 2013 known issues

 * [Project help](afac1e38-1219-4a88-bd22-81534778d528.md)* 
  
    
    

Welcome to Microsoft Project Server 2013.
Please refer to the provided End-User License Agreement for license information.
  
    
    

The following list contains important facts about Project Server 2013.
## Additional Workflow Data link might not work
<a name="__top"> </a>

When you create a project with a workflow, you can get workflow information on the Workflow Stage Status Project Detail Page (PDP). When you expand All Workflow Stages, an Additional Workflow Data link shows information specific to the instance associated with the project. If Project Web App isn't the root of the site collection, this link won't work, as it will try to go to the root site.
  
    
    
 **Workaround** Manually add the Project Web App instance name into the URL. For example, if your Project Web App is http://myserver/pwa, and the site collection root is http://myserver, the link goes to http://myserver/_layouts/15/wrkstat.aspx?WorkflowInstanceName=....
  
    
    
So add in your Project Web App name between ""myserver"" and ""_layouts."" Example: http://myserver/pwa/_layouts/15/wrkstat.aspx?WorkflowInstanceName=...."
  
    
    

## Lookup tables based on custom fields can't be used in workflows
<a name="__top"> </a>

Lookup tables (LUT) based on custom fields can't be used in Project Workflows.
  
    
    
 **Workaround** No workaround is available.
  
    
    

## Project 2010 Exchange Task Sync to Outlook is deprecated
<a name="__top"> </a>

The Project 2010 Exchange Task Sync to Outlook is deprecated in the final version of Project 2013.
  
    
    
 **Workaround** You can use the new SharePoint 2013 Task Sync feature instead.
  
    
    

## Workflow activities don't get deployed correctly the first time
<a name="__top"> </a>

The workflow activities don't get deployed correctly the first time.
  
    
    
 **Workaround** Use the following command in SharePoint PowerShell at the end of the installing Project Server:
  
    
    
Copy-SPActivitiesToWorkflowService
  
    
    

## The VBA method SynchronizeWithSiteEx is not functional
<a name="__toc327304418"> </a>

The new Visual Basic for Applications method, SynchronizeWithSiteEx, is not functional for Office 2013 or for Office 365.
  
    
    
 **Workaround** Instead, use the VBA method SynchronizeWithSite.
  
    
    

## OData Excel reports appear in English for Spanish and Japanese versions
<a name="__toc327304418"> </a>

If you install the Spanish or Japanese version of Project Server or Project Online, the Project Overview, Resource Overview, and Project Overview Dashboard Excel reports will appear in English rather than in your chosen language.
  
    
    
 **Workaround** To see these reports in your chosen language, you will need to recreate the OData Excel reports in Spanish or Japanese.
  
    
    

## You may get an error message when refreshing Excel reports using OData
<a name="__toc327304418"> </a>

When you build Excel reports using the OData connection to Project Server or Project Online, you may occasionally see this message when trying to refresh the reports:
  
    
    
The request was aborted: Could not create SSL/TLS secure channel.
  
    
    
This error may be encountered intermittently as a result of server responsiveness issues.
  
    
    
 **Workaround** Usually a second or third attempt will refresh the Excel report successfully.
  
    
    

## User delegation does not work
<a name="__toc327304418"> </a>

Activating delegation for a Project Server user will fail.
  
    
    
 **Workaround** There is no workaround for this issue.
  
    
    

## You will get an error message during your initial refresh of server reports connected to OData
<a name="__toc327304418"> </a>

When you attempt to refresh any of the three server reports connected to OData, an error message is displayed when trying to make the initial connection:
  
    
    
The request was aborted: Could not create SSL/TLS secure channel. 
  
    
    
For example, "Projects Overview" has five workbook connections, and an error is always displayed referencing the Assignments connection.
  
    
    
 **Workaround** Dismiss the error message and refresh a second time. The second refresh should complete successfully with no error.
  
    
    

## Visual reports can only be viewed in English for this release
<a name="__toc327304419"> </a>

If you select a visual report in a language other than English in Project Professional or Project Online Desktop Client, you get the error "An unknown error has occurred", and you are unable to view the report. There is a known issue preventing viewing visual reports in languages other than English.
  
    
    
 **Workaround** There is no workaround for this issue.
  
    
    
 [< More Project helpWelcome to Microsoft Project Server 2013.Please refer to the provided End-User License Agreement for license information.The following list contains important facts about Project Server 2013.](63701633-1131-4731-8075-df444b1c7318.md#__top)
  
    
    
