
# Add an existing SharePoint task list to Project Web App

There are many different ways that a project can begin. You may know many project details right from the start, or you may only have a general idea of what a project involves at first. Because of this, you may find it more convenient to begin your project planning by using a SharePoint task list. You can add that existing SharePoint task list to the Project Center in Project Web App so that stakeholders will see your project when they are reviewing your organization's full workload.
  
    
    

Once a SharePoint task list has been added to Project Web App, users can continue to make changes to the list in SharePoint, and those changes can be viewed in Project Web App. If you want to be able to make changes to the list in Project Web App, see  [Change a SharePoint task list into an enterprise project](d1387254-9478-4d9d-90d7-a4aee16b1f3c.md). 
## In this article
<a name="__top"> </a>



  
    
    
>  [Choose how you want to import your SharePoint task list](6f7b8294-2284-43ed-be4b-a8480f472674.md#__toc365279864)
    
  

  
    
    
>  [Add a task list by using the Get Started with Project Web App Web Part](6f7b8294-2284-43ed-be4b-a8480f472674.md#__toc365279865)
    
  

  
    
    
>  [Add a task list from within SharePoint](6f7b8294-2284-43ed-be4b-a8480f472674.md#__toc365279866)
    
  

  
    
    
>  [Add a task list from within Project Web App](6f7b8294-2284-43ed-be4b-a8480f472674.md#__toc365279867)
    
  

## Choose how you want to import your SharePoint task list
<a name="__toc365279864"> </a>

When you want a SharePoint task list to be included in Project Web App, you can add the list to the Project Center in Project Web App. During the import process, you identify which SharePoint site contains the task list and choose which task list from the site to use. You also provide a project name. For example, let's say you have a site called "Marketing Team Projects," and a task list on that site called "Conference Tasks." When you add the list in Project Web App, you specify that the list is on the "Marketing Team Projects" site, you provide a more appropriate project name, such as "Marketing Conference," and you select the "Conference Tasks" list.
  
    
    
The selected task list will be included in the Project Center in Project Web App, under the project name you provided during the import process. In the Project Center, you can open the project in Project Web App to view the task list from the SharePoint site. So in this example, the Project Center shows a new row for "Marketing Conference," and when you open that row in Project Web App, you see the tasks from the "Conference Tasks" list.
  
    
    
This import process for an existing SharePoint task list can be done in a few different ways:
  
    
    

- **Use the Get Started with Project Web App Web Part.** If it is available on the Project Web App Home page, the Get Started with Project Web App Web Part includes a wizard to walk you through the import process.
    
  
- **Add a task list to Project Web App from within SharePoint.** While on the SharePoint site that contains your task list, you can choose to add the task list to Project Web App.
    
  
- **Add a task list from within Project Web App.** If you are currently working in Project Web App, you can choose to add the task list from within the Project Center.
    
  

## Add a task list by using the Get Started with Project Web App Web Part
<a name="__toc365279865"> </a>

To add an existing task list by using the **Get Started with Project Web App** Web Part:
  
    
    

1. In Project Web App, click **Create or import projects** on the **Get Started with Project Web App** Web Part.
    
  
2. On the **Create a new Project** page, click **Add existing SharePoint sites to Project Web App**.
    
  
3. On the **Add SharePoint Sites to Project Web App** dialog box, select the check box next to the site that contains the task list you want to include in Project Web App.
    
    > [!NOTE]
      >  The **Add SharePoint Sites to Project Web App** dialog box lists only those sites that you can access in SharePoint. If the list you want to add is on a site you don't have access to, contact an administrator for that site to request permissions.
4. In the **Project Name** column for the selected row, type the project name that you want to use in Project Web App for this connected SharePoint task list.
    
  
5. In the **Tasks List** column for the selected row, choose the task list from the SharePoint site that you want to include in the Project Center.
    
    > [!TIP]
      >  If you want to import multiple task lists from different sites, repeat steps 3 through 5 for each site. If you want to import multiple task lists from the same site, complete this procedure and then repeat the procedure using the same site, being sure to give the added task list a different project name.
6. Click **Add** to add the task list to the Project Center using the project name you specified.
    
  

## Add a task list from within SharePoint
<a name="__toc365279866"> </a>

If you are working on a task list in SharePoint, it may be more convenient for you to add that task list to Project Web App from within SharePoint.
  
    
    

> [!NOTE]
>  If you are interested in using the task list data in your Project Server database, but don't want to create a Project Web App site within the site collection that stores your task list, you can enable the Project Web App site collection features without creating a Project Web App site. For more information on this, see [Import SharePoint tasks to the Project Web App database without a Project Web App site](223f2499-86ba-47ac-8499-b2673faf5c2e.md). 
  
    
    

To add an existing task list to Project Web App from within SharePoint, first you need to add the Project Center Web Part to a page on the site. This setup procedure only needs to be completed one time.
  
    
    
To add the Project Center Web Part to a page:
  
    
    

1. On the page where you want to add a button to import a task list, click **Page**, and then click **Edit**.
    
  
2. On the **Insert** tab, in the **Parts** group, click **Web Part**.
    
  
3. Under **Categories**, click **Project Web App**.
    
  
4. Under **Parts**, click **Project Center**, and then click **Add**.
    
  
5. Click once in the **Project Center** web part, and then, on the **Web Part** tab, click **Web Part Properties**.
    
  
6. In the **Project Center** pane that appears, click **Project Web App** to expand it.
    
  
7. Type the top-level URL for the site collection that contains your task list in the **Project Web App URL** box, and then click **OK**.
    
  
8. On the **Page** tab, in the **Edit** group, click **Save** or **Stop Editing**.
    
  
Once the Project Center Web Part is added, you can use it as many times as you would like to add task lists to Project Web App from your SharePoint site.
  
    
    
To add an existing task list:
  
    
    

1. Click once in the **Project Center** Web Part, and then click the **Projects** tab.
    
  
2. In the **Project** group, click **Add SharePoint Sites**.
    
  
3. On the **Add SharePoint Sites to Project Web App** dialog box, select the check box next to the site that contains the task list you want to include in Project Web App.
    
    > [!NOTE]
      >  The **Add SharePoint Sites to Project Web App** dialog box lists only those sites that you can access in SharePoint. If the list you want to add is on a site you don't have access to, contact an administrator for that site to request permissions.
4. In the **Project Name** column for the selected row, type the project name that you want to use in Project Web App for this connected SharePoint task list.
    
  
5. In the **Task List** column for the selected row, choose the task list from the SharePoint site that you want to include in the Project Center.
    
    > [!TIP]
      >  If you want to import multiple task lists from different sites, repeat steps 3 through 5 for each site. If you want to import multiple task lists from the same site, complete this procedure and then repeat the procedure using the same site, being sure to give the added task list a different project name.
6. Click **Add** to add the task list to the Project Center using the project name you specified.
    
  

## Add a task list from within Project Web App
<a name="__toc365279867"> </a>

To add an existing SharePoint task list from within Project Web App:
  
    
    

1. On the Quick Launch in Project Web App, under **Projects**, click **Project Center**.
    
  
2. On the **Projects** tab, in the **Project** group, click **Add SharePoint Sites**.
    
  
3. On the **Add SharePoint Sites to Project Server** dialog box, select the check box next to the site that contains the task list you want to include in Project Web App.
    
    > [!NOTE]
      >  The **Add SharePoint Sites to Project Server** dialog box lists only those sites that you can access in SharePoint. If the list you want to add is on a site you don't have access to, contact an administrator for that site to request permissions.
4. In the **Project Name** column for the selected row, type the project name that you want to use in Project Web App for this connected SharePoint task list.
    
  
5. In the **Task List** column for the selected row, choose the task list from the SharePoint site that you want to include in the Project Center.
    
    > [!TIP]
      >  If you want to import multiple task lists from different sites, repeat steps 3 through 5 for each site. If you want to import multiple task lists from the same site, complete this procedure and then repeat the procedure using the same site, being sure to give the added task list a different project name.
6. Click **Add** to add the task list to the Project Center using the project name you specified.
    
  
