
# Deploy Project Web App
 **We are in the process of combining the Project Server 2013 and Project Server 2016 content into a single content set. We appreciate your patience while we reorganize things. See the Applies To tag at the top of each article to find out which version of Project Server an article applies to.** **Summary:** Determine whether to deploy Project Web App to a new site collection or add it to an existing site collection.
Before we get started configuring Project Web App, here are two important things if you've used earlier versions of Project Server:
  
    
    


- If you are upgrading from a previous version of Project Server, you will deploy Project Web App as part of the upgrade process. Read  [Upgrade to Project Server 2016](ede95420-e1ae-472e-9c41-959399dc5828.md) instead of this article.
    
  
- In Project Server 2016, a Project Web App site is created by using Microsoft PowerShell. There's no longer a **Create Project Web App Instance** button in the SharePoint Central Administration website. We'll give you the details in the topics below.
    
  

There are two options for deploying Project Web App. You can either create a Project Web App site as the top level of a new site collection, or you can add a Project Web App site to an existing site collection.
  
    
    

If you are looking for a clean environment to begin managing projects in Project Web App, consider creating your Project Web App site as the top level site in a new site collection. For step-by-step instructions on how to create a Project Web App site as the top level site in a new site collection, see  [Deploy Project Web App with a new site collection (Project Server 2016)](1619f4b5-af74-41ee-8051-7eb99511d084.md).If you have existing sites where you have SharePoint task list projects and you want to add Project Server functionality to them, you can add a Project Web App site to that site collection. For step-by-step instructions on how to add a Project Web App site to an existing site collection, see  [Deploy Project Web App in an existing site collection (Project Server 2016)](a78908cc-25bc-4591-a897-21e276eb954c.md)
## See also


#### 


  
    
    
 [Project forums](https://social.technet.microsoft.com/Forums/en-US/category/project)