
# Create a new task

If you have the appropriate permissions in Project Web App, you can easily create a new task in an enterprise project by using the Project Center.
  
    
    


> [!NOTE]
>  To create a new task in a SharePoint task list project, see [Add tasks to your project](http://technet.microsoft.com/library/207fa4b6-8bea-4066-a805-9a46f65a6546%28Office.14%29.aspx). 
  
    
    

To create a new task in an enterprise project:
1. On the Quick Launch, click **Projects**.
    
  
2. Click the name of an existing project in the list.
    
  
3. On the **Task** tab, click **Edit**.
    
    > [!NOTE]
      >  If you want to create new tasks by using Microsoft Project Professional, click the down arrow on the **Edit** button, and then click **In Microsoft Project**. 
4. Enter a new task by using one of the following methods:
    
  - Enter the task information in the blank row at the bottom of the list.
    
  
  - Copy and paste tasks from another program, such as UNRESOLVED_TOKEN_VAL()Microsoft Excel.
    
  
  - Insert a new task between two existing tasks. Click the row that you want to appear under the new task, and then press **Insert** on your keyboard, or click **Insert** in the **Tasks** group on the **Task** tab.
    
    > [!TIP]
      >  Consider adding the **Task Name**, **Duration**, **Start** date, and/or **Finish** date. Read [Choose between automatically or manually scheduling a task](99b036ba-8207-4702-a3fc-14c49f913683.md#__choose_between_automatically) for more information on including these details.

    **Assigning a lot of people to your task?** It's best to use Project Professional when you need to assign a lot of people, or other resources, to a task. To do this, finish adding your task here, and then [Open a project in Microsoft Project](ee5302c7-2f77-4ffc-8d1e-8286fdc87f2f.md) to [Assign people to work on tasks](http://technet.microsoft.com/library/418e32f8-1491-43c0-9b28-14894bd8b4b8%28Office.14%29.aspx).
    
  
5. When you have finished adding tasks, click **Close** to check the project back in.
    
  
After you have created tasks in your enterprise project, there are several things you may want to do to further clarify your project's schedule, share your new tasks with others, or track the progress of your tasks.You may want to:
-  [Indent or outdent tasks in your project](9fe939b4-52ca-4ae5-8521-530000315738.md) to create a hierarchy.
    
  
-  [Link tasks in your project](0a1110e0-cb75-4b3d-b7d3-8925d4185efe.md) to show relationships between them.
    
  
-  [Add tasks to a project timeline](285b8052-ac5f-4936-9207-dcce549da4ba.md) on the **Schedule** page and in the Project Center.
    
  
-  [Publish a project](b4c7593d-0844-4d28-bf2c-5ddff2498e33.md) so that the tasks are available to the project team.
    
  
-  [Set a baseline for your project](ae6fc31e-3c9e-40f9-8fd9-16f59f3e4650.md) , to compare your plans as the project progresses.
    
  

## Choose between automatically or manually scheduling a task
<a name="__choose_between_automatically"> </a>

Tasks in your project can be automatically scheduled by the Project Web App scheduling engine, or they can be manually scheduled, maintaining the duration, start date, and finish date that you enter.
  
    
    
To change scheduling modes, choose one of these options:
  
    
    

- Select **Auto scheduled** or **Manually scheduled** from the drop-down list in the **Mode** column for the task row.
    
  
- Click once in the task row to select it, and then, on the **Task** tab, in the **Editing** group, click **Manually Schedule** or **Auto Schedule**.
    
  
If you choose to automatically schedule a task in your project, that task's duration, start date, and finish date are determined by Project Web App, which takes many different factors into consideration. If the task is dependent on other tasks or deliverables, the dates for those items are taken into account if your task is automatically scheduled. Project Web App also considers resource availability, work hours, and calendars. If Project Web App is integrated with Microsoft Exchange Server, automatic scheduling can even take into account the out-of-office time that resources have entered on their Outlook calendars.
  
    
    
Manually scheduling a task can be helpful if you want greater control over the dates and durations in your project's schedule, or if you don't have enough detail about a project's tasks to accurately build a schedule automatically. When you choose to manually schedule a task in your project, the duration, start date, and finish date for the task is not changed by the Project Web App scheduling engine. These values will remain where you set them, even if not every detail in the project supports them. You can even use descriptive statements in the **Duration**, **Start**, and **Finish** boxes, rather than numeric values. For example, you might know that the duration for a task is "About a week" or that a task should begin "Mid-October."
  
    
    

## Use top-down summary tasks for high-level planning
<a name="__choose_between_automatically"> </a>

While you plan a project, you may only have some high-level information about major milestones. In Project Web App, you can still plan your project, even without work estimates or details about what tasks might be involved. Instead of entering the task-level details about your project, you can take a top-down approach by creating high-level summary phases based on the overall timeline of your project.
  
    
    

1. **Create tasks** Create tasks that represent what you know about the project. Use the procedure from earlier in this article.
    
  
2. **Indent subtasks** Indent subtasks under summary tasks to represent different stages or phases within the project.
    
  
3. **Enter dates or durations** Enter dates or durations at the summary task level to manually schedule the summary task so that the dates and durations of the subtasks do not roll up to the summary task.
    
  
