
# Edit project details

Once a project is created in Project Web App, you may find that you need to change some of the general project information, such as the project name, description, or owner. The way that you make changes to an existing project is different, depending on whether the project is a SharePoint task list project, where the tasks are managed using a task list on the project site, or an enterprise project, where the tasks are managed in Project Web App.
  
    
    


> [!NOTE]
>  You can also change the template used by the project, if appropriate. See [Change a project's template](c240615b-50b5-45c7-8641-366e42e7eca1.md) for more information.
  
    
    

To edit details for a SharePoint task list project:
1. Go to the **Project Details** page:
    
  - From Project Web App, on the Quick Launch, click **Projects**. Click the name of the project you are editing to open the project site. On the Quick Launch for the project site, click **Project Details**.
    
  
  - From the project site, on the Quick Launch, click **Project Details**.
    
  
2. Make changes to the information on the **Project Details** page, and then, on the **Project** tab, in the **Project** group, click **Save**.
    
  
3. When you are done making changes to the project, on the **Project** tab, in the **Project** group, click **Close**.
    
  
To edit details for an enterprise project:
1.  [Open a project for editing](8f9ce971-7913-4357-9a9e-4805e0e876aa.md) .
    
  
2. If you are using Project Server 2013: on the Quick Launch, under the project name, click **Project Details**, or any other links to pages with project information, to make changes.
    
    If you are using Project Server 2016: you will be brought directly to the **Project Details** section to make changes.
    
  
3. Once you've made your updates, on the **Project** tab, in the **Project** group, click **Save** to save your changes and publish them for others to see.
    
  
4. On the **Project** tab, in the **Project** group, click **Close**. You can choose to check the project in, or keep it checked out.
    
  
