
# Set a baseline for your project

A project baseline can be used to compare your initial project plans, or the state of a project at certain key points as it progresses, to the current state of a project. When you set a baseline for a project in Project Web App, the data in several key task, resource, and assignment fields is captured and saved as a numbered set of baseline data. As your project progresses, you can refer back to that captured baseline data to see how your current data compares.
  
    
    


> [!NOTE]
>  In some cases, you might not have permission to set a baseline for your project. If you are using Classic Permission Management, your administrator can choose whether to allow users to save protected and/or unprotected baselines. If you do not have permission to set a baseline, an error message appears when you click **Set Baseline**. 
  
    
    

 **To set a baseline for your project:**
1.  [Open a project for editing](8f9ce971-7913-4357-9a9e-4805e0e876aa.md) .
    
  
2. Go to **Schedule** in the Quick Launch, then on the **Task** tab, in the **Editing** group, click **Set Baseline**, and then click the numbered baseline you want to use for the current project data. You can save up to 11 different baseline data sets, including the unnumbered **Baseline**.
    
    > [!TIP]
      >  After a baseline is saved, the date when it was saved is included next to it in the list of baselines that you can choose from when you set a baseline. This can help you choose which numbered baseline to use, and is a good reference for remembering when you last captured a baseline of your project data.
You can also clear baselines that you have previously set. **To clear a baseline for your project:**
1.  [Open a project for editing](8f9ce971-7913-4357-9a9e-4805e0e876aa.md) .
    
  
2. Go to **Schedule** in the Quick Launch, then on the **Task** tab, in the **Editing** group, click **Clear Baseline**, and then click the numbered baseline you want to clear.
    
  
