
# Publish a project

After you have created a project in Project Web App, or after you have made changes to a project, you need to publish the project. Publishing the project makes the most current information available to others, including the team members assigned to the project's tasks.
  
    
    


> [!TIP]
>  If you are making multiple changes to a project, or if you are in the process of building out the project plan, it can be helpful to wait until all information is current before you publish the project. You can make changes to the project and then, on the **Project** tab or the **Task** tab, in the **Project** group, click **Save**. This saves your changes without publishing them for others to view. Until you publish your changes, team members and others who access your project will see the last published version of the project. 
  
    
    

To publish your project:
1.  [Open a project for editing](8f9ce971-7913-4357-9a9e-4805e0e876aa.md) .
    
    > [!NOTE]
      >  Only enterprise projects, which are managed in Project Web App, can be published. SharePoint task list projects are automatically available to those who have access to the project site.
2. On the **Schedule** page for the project, click the **Task** tab, and then, in the **Project** group, click **Publish**. The project is saved and then published.
    
  
Once you have finished publishing the project, if you have no other changes, you can click **Close** in the **Project** group on the **Project** tab or the **Task** tab. This will prompt you to either check the project in, or keep it checked out.