
# Configure the Resource Center

 * [Project help](afac1e38-1219-4a88-bd22-81534778d528.md)* 
  
    
    

If your organization uses Active Directory synchronization, the first time you access the Resource Center in Project Web App, you need to choose which Active Directory group contains the users that you want to make resources in Project Web App.
To choose which group to use for your Project Web App resources:
  
    
    


1. On the Quick Launch, click **Resources**.
    
  
2. On the **Resource Center** page, click the **click here** link to synchronize with an existing Active Directory group.
    
  
3. On the **Active Directory Enterprise Resource Pool Synchronization** page, in the **Active Directory Group** section, enter the name of the Active Directory group that contains your Project Web App resources. You can enter multiple Active Directory groups, if appropriate.
    
  
4. Select the **Automatically reactivate currently inactive users if found in Active Directory during sync** check box, unless there is a good reason not to do this in your organization.
    
  
5. Click **Save and Synchronize Now** to add the users that are in the Active Directory group to Project Web App as resources.
    
  
You can also add resources that aren't part of the selected Active Directory group(s). See  [Add a resource to Project Web App](71c6aa5c-2a97-4cbb-9814-26289c62c471.md) for more information. [< More Project helpIf your organization uses Active Directory synchronization, the first time you access the Resource Center in Project Web App, you need to choose which Active Directory group contains the users that you want to make resources in Project Web App.To choose which group to use for your Project Web App resources:On the Quick Launch, click Resources.On the Resource Center page, click the click here link to synchronize with an existing Active Directory group.On the Active Directory Enterprise Resource Pool Synchronization page, in the Active Directory Group section, enter the name of the Active Directory group that contains your Project Web App resources. You can enter multiple Active Directory groups, if appropriate.Select the Automatically reactivate currently inactive users if found in Active Directory during sync check box, unless there is a good reason not to do this in your organization.Click Save and Synchronize Now to add the users that are in the Active Directory group to Project Web App as resources.You can also add resources that aren't part of the selected Active Directory group(s). See Add a resource to Project Web App for more information.Top of Page](c2cb242a-adc2-44e3-ac4c-b95f833b3ac3.md#__top)