
# Use Excel 2013 to create a new Project Online report

You can use Microsoft Excel 2013 to connect to your Project Online data and create reports. Once the reports are saved to a library in Project Online, you can view them in a browser window using Excel Online.
  
    
    


> [!IMPORTANT]
>  Before following the steps in this article, it is important that you [Grant reporting access in Project Online](4f125cf5-a752-4ce6-b9e9-5a2eb6ace9e2.md) first. This is a one-time setup step that will allow your reports to refresh properly in Excel Online.
  
    
    


This article walks you through creating a data connection in Excel 2013 to your Project Online data to show a list of projects in a PivotTable report. You can do much more than this with Excel 2013 and an OData connection to your Project Online data, but since you're just getting started, we've kept this example simple and straightforward.
  
    
    

The following steps are covered in this article:
-  [Step 1: Create a connection to your Project Online data in Excel 2013](d523d604-940c-4c57-a190-59b793ac9d49.md#BKMK_Step1)
    
  
-  [Step 2: Choose data to include in your report](d523d604-940c-4c57-a190-59b793ac9d49.md#BKMK_Step2)
    
  
-  [Step 3: Save your report to Project Online](d523d604-940c-4c57-a190-59b793ac9d49.md#BKMK_Step3)
    
  
-  [Step 4: Open your report in Project Online](d523d604-940c-4c57-a190-59b793ac9d49.md#BKMK_Step4)
    
  

## Step 1: Create a connection to your Project Online data in Excel 2013
<a name="BKMK_Step1"> </a>

The first step is to create a connection in Excel 2013 that points to your Project Online data.
  
    
    
To create the connection:
  
    
    

1. In Excel 2013, choose **File** > **New** > **Blank workbook**.
    
  
2. On the **Data** tab, in the **Get External Data** group, choose **From Other Sources** > **From OData Data Feed**.
    
  
3. Under **1. Location of the data feed**, in the **Link or File** box, type the website address (URL) for your Project Web App instance, followed by: **/_api/ProjectData/**. 
    
    For example, if you access Project Web App at **https://contoso.sharepoint.com/sites/pwa**, then you would enter **https://contoso.sharepoint.com/sites/pwa/_api/ProjectData/** in the **Link or File** box.
    
  
4. Log in using your Microsoft Office 365 credentials.
    
  
5. On the **Data Connection Wizard** dialog box, select the check box next to **Projects**, and then click **Next**.
    
  
6. On the **Save Data Connection File and Finish** step, click **Finish**.
    
  
7. On the **Import Data** dialog box, select **PivotTable Report** and then click **OK**.
    
  
That's it! Now you are connected to your Project Online data.
  
    
    

## Step 2: Choose data to include in your report
<a name="BKMK_Step2"> </a>

The next step is to choose which portions of the **Projects** data you want to include in the report, and then design the report itself. In this very simple example, you will choose two data points: project names, and the names of the project owners.
  
    
    
To build a simple PivotTable report:
  
    
    

1. On the **PivotTable Fields** pane on the right side of the Excel 2013 window, select the check boxes next to **ProjectName** and **ProjectOwnerName**.
    
  
2. Use the options on the **Analyze** and **Design** tabs, under **PivotTable Tools** on the ribbon, to customize your PivotTable report.
    
  

## Step 3: Save your report to Project Online
<a name="BKMK_Step3"> </a>

Once your report is built, the last step is to save it to Project Online, so that you can easily open it later using Excel Online.
  
    
    
To save a PivotTable report to Project Online:
  
    
    

1. In Excel 2013, click **File**.
    
  
2. Click **Save As**, then click **SharePoint**, and then click **Browse**.
    
  
3. In the bar at the top, where your current location is listed, right-click the URL, and then click **Edit address**.
    
  
4. Type the URL for your Project Web App site in the location box, and then press **Enter**.
    
    For example, type **https://contoso.sharepoint.com/sites/pwa**, and then press **Enter**.
    
  
5. Double-click the **PWA Reports** library.
    
  
6. Double-click the **English (United States)** folder.
    
  
7. Type a name for your new report in the **File name** box, and then click **Save**.
    
  
After saving the report to your Project Online PWA Reports library, close the report in Excel 2013. Now you can navigate to it in your browser and open it using Project Online.
  
    
    

## Step 4: Open your report in Project Online
<a name="BKMK_Step4"> </a>

Once your report is saved to Project Online, you can navigate to the PWA Reports library and then open your report using Excel Online. This enables you to view your report, with the most recent project data, from anywhere with access to Project Online.
  
    
    
To open your report in Excel Online:
  
    
    

1. In Project Web App, click **Reports** on the Quick Launch.
    
  
2. Click **English (United States)**.
    
  
3. Click the name of your report to open it in Excel Online.
    
  
