
# Build OLAP cubes in Project Server 2016
 **We are in the process of combining the Project Server 2013 and Project Server 2016 content into a single content set. We appreciate your patience while we reorganize things. See the Applies To tag at the top of each article to find out which version of Project Server an article applies to.** **Summary:** Build OLAP cubes by using the OLAP Database Management page in Central Administration.
OLAP cubes can be scheduled to be built on a regular basis. For more information, see  [Configure an OLAP cube in Project Server 2016](6e92d2c8-ea5c-4534-9bad-9e99eb5235c8.md). You can also start the build process manually.
  
    
    

To build an OLAP cube, you must be a Project Server service application administrator. Perform the following procedure to build an existing OLAP cube.
### To build an OLAP cube by using Project Web App


1. In Central Administration, in the **Application Management** section, click **Manage service applications**.
    
  
2. Click the Project Server service application.
    
  
3. Point to the Project Web App instance where you want to build the cube, click the arrow that appears, and then click **Manage**.
    
  
4. On the Server Settings page, in the **Database Administration** section, click **OLAP Database Management**.
    
  
5. On the OLAP Database Management page, select the cube that you want to build, and then click **Build Now**.
    
  

## See also


#### 


  
    
    
 [Create OLAP cubes in Project Server 2016](69efbd37-9b58-43f5-9e6b-93bc2cfbdbc6.md)
  
    
    
 [Configure an OLAP cube in Project Server 2016](6e92d2c8-ea5c-4534-9bad-9e99eb5235c8.md)
  
    
    
 [Delete OLAP cubes in Project Server 2016](455e2d63-120c-46ea-bc90-e0fa5a45d34d.md)